---
layout: archive
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}
{% include toc %}

# Matheus Henrique Batista Palmieri da Silva

**Location:** Uberaba, Brazil  
**Contact:** +5534997934924 | matheushbps@gmail.com  
**LinkedIn:** [Matheus Henrique LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matheushbps/)  
**Website:** [Portfolio](https://matheushbps.github.io/)  
**GitHub:** [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/matheushbps)


**I'm searching for remote spots in a data driven company where I can apply my Data Science, NLP, LLM and data analysis skills to help
improve a data driven guided by strong and complex analysis, with powerful results.**

If you're interested in knowing a little more about me, please check my Cover Letter: [Cover Letter](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/MHCL.pdf)

---

# Education

- **UFTM – Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro**  
  *Uberaba, MG – Brazil*  
  Bachelor's degree in Chemical Engineering  
  **March 2015 – December 2021**

- **USP/ESALQ – Universidade de São Paulo**  
  *Piracicaba, SP – Brazil (Remote)*  
  MSc in Data Science and Analytics  
  **May 2024 – Present**

---

# Professional Experience

## LLM Engineer - Turing (at a FAANG)  
**Location:** Palo Alto, California, USA (Remote)  
**Duration:** May 2024 – Present  

- Developed high-quality Jupyter Notebooks in Python to support the Conversational AI Chat system for one of the top 5 Big Tech 
companies in the USA (FAANG). 
- Built and optimized Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems to improve model efficiency and accuracy, ensuring 
adherence to internal documentation. 
- Trained the AI model to leverage the company’s APIs in conjunction with its own knowledge, enabling the generation of richer, 
more informed responses. 
- Created Supervised Fine Tuning (SFT) datasets to teach the model the correct approach aligned with company guidelines. 
- Conducted comparative analysis across different Conversational AI systems to identify improvement areas within our own 
platform. 
- Analyzed response outcomes to detect performance patterns, utilizing reinforcement learning algorithms to enhance positive 
behaviors and penalize suboptimal ones. 
- Reviewed and proposed improvements for Python code generated by the AI model, ensuring efficiency and correctness. 
- Performed data analysis, machine learning, and statistical analysis to assess the model’s decision-making and suggested corrective 
actions when necessary. 
- Identified and corrected code errors generated by the AI, ensuring quality and reliability in outputs. 

## Senior Data Scientist/Analyst - DiDi Chuxing / 99  
**Location:** Beijing - China (Remote)  
**Duration:** April 2023 – April 2024  

- Consolidated 50 disparate metrics from 13 countries and 5 business units into a single source of information for key performance 
indicators (KPIs) and customer experience (CX) goals.  
- Creation of supervised and unsupervised models to support decision-making and prescriptive analytics.  
- Utilized Big Data techniques, including developing HIVE queries, to meet stakeholder data requirements.  
- Implemented a Semi-Supervisioned Machine Learning model to detect the cost of each contact for the whole business (For each 
Business Line and Regions). From this, the business stakeholders were able to allocate the resources more effectively, knowing 
beforehand how much each contact would cost to the business. 
- Automated tasks using Python and various APIs to streamline processes and allocate time effectively.  
- Leveraged business intelligence (BI) techniques to deliver actionable insights and trends on business KPIs to stakeholders.  
- Collaborated with Product Areas to enhance and develop features with data-driven support.  

## Data Scientist/Analyst - DiDi Chuxing / 99  
**Location:** Beijing - China (Remote)  
**Duration:** December 2022 – April 2023  

- Spearheaded task automation, business report generation, and ETL queries to facilitate end-to-end support for the data analysis 
process.  
- Creation of supervised and unsupervised models to support decision-making and prescriptive analytics.  
- Created an unsupervised Machine Learning model to detect a city similar to Bogota, from where it was ran an A/B test and we 
could make sure the feature implementation was depleting the results of CPO (Contacts per Order). 
- Developed predictive models to enhance data analysis and yield deeper insights.  
- Provided global support to squads on internal initiatives related to data analysis and automation within the Global Data Analytics 
domain.  
- Collaborated with Product Areas to enhance feature development with data-driven support.  
- Recognized multiple times for contributions, achieving an A/S performance rating in 2022, primarily for efficiency enhancements 
and discoveries benefiting the operations team through shared data. Allowing, through all conducted analyses and the introduction 
of Machine Learning models, a reduction in CX operational costs by 1 million dollars per quarter.

## Data Scientist/Analyst Intern - DiDi Chuxing / 99  
**Location:** Beijing - China (Remote)  
**Duration:** September 2022 – December 2022  

- Applied Python for data analysis and statistical tests, particularly in CX Value Generation, generating business insights to enable 
better resource allocation with a focus on CSAT, NPS, and refunds.  
- Created a Semi-Supervised machine learning model called Judgement Model to detect whether or not a client were supposed to be 
given a refund. 
- Developed an Unsupervised Machine Learning Model to cluster three kind of drivers: Gold, Silver and Bronze, enabling the 
business stakeholders to know which kind of users to put more focus and effort in. 
- Creation of supervised and unsupervised models to support decision-making and prescriptive analytics.  
- Designed automations to enhance the scalability and ease of data analysis processes.  
- Developed a Predictive Model to accurately describe CPO (contacts per order), surpassing previous estimations by the business.  
- Enhanced spreadsheets to facilitate stakeholder analysis and modified queries in Hive (SQL-HQL) to retrieve required data 
efficiently.  

## Data Scientist/Analysis in Financial Planning and Analysis Intern - DiDi Chuxing / 99  
**Location:** Beijing - China (Remote)  
**Duration:** April 2022 – September 2022  

- Pioneered the development of FP&A Dashboards using Tableau, providing stakeholders with previously inaccessible or complex 
data visualization.  
- Leveraged Excel, VBA, and Power Query extensively for data processing and spreadsheet automation.  
- Implemented Supervised Machine Learning models to predict the capacity required in the Call Centers. 
- Provided support in budget planning and financial control for the CX Team.  
- Conducted financial analysis of CX KPIs to identify opportunities for expense optimization.  
- Implemented a new Workflow to capture financial data from Focal Points across three business lines and 15 countries, aiming to 
initiate forecasting and enhance business efficiency.  
- Assisted in the implementation of a new financial model with the team.  

---

# Relevant Experience

## Data Science/Analytics and Management Team  
**Location:** Belo Horizonte, MG - Brazil (Remote)  
**Role:** Management Team  
**Duration:** June 2020 – August 2020  

- Led the construction of a robust database system to manage medication inventory efficiently.  
- Played a pivotal role in crafting a comprehensive portfolio for an NGO, highlighting its mission, projects, and impact.  
- Managed social media platforms, overseeing content creation and strategy implementation.  
- Adopted Supervised Machine Learning implementations to understand where to gather medication and when it would start to run 
out for determined kind of medicines.

---

# Awards and Honors

- Performance A/S as a data analyst improved business operations, leading to reduced costs, 2022.
- Individual performance recognition by DiDi Chuxing on the global team, 2022.
- Won the Value Stars project at DiDi, recognized for its significant impact, reducing expenses in 1 million USD a quarter in CX 
Compensations, 2022. 
- Award for implementing CX Foundations within the data team, 2024.

---

# Relevant Certifications

## **Google – Google Advanced Analytics**  [Certificate ML Google](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/Google_mat.pdf)
*Menlo Park – Brazil*  
Program of Courses in Data Science and Data Analytics  
**April 2024 – August 2024**

## **Stanford Online – Machine Learning Specialization**  [Certificate ML Stanford](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/Stanford_Mat.pdf)
*California – USA*  
Program of Courses in Machine Learning  
**February 2024 – June 2024**

## **Data Camp – Data Scientist Associate** [Certificate DS Associate](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/DSA_Associate.pdf)  
*New York – USA*  
Program of Courses in Data Science  
**April 2024 – October 2024**

## **DSA – Data Science Academy** [Certificate DS](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/DSA_academy_Mat.pdf)
*Brazilia, DF – Brazil*  
Program of Courses in Data Science  
**May 2022 – May 2024**

## **Data Camp – Developing AI Applications** [Certificate Developing AI](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/AI_Applications.pdf)
*New York – USA*  
Program of Courses in IA  
**May 2024 – June 2024**

## **Data Camp – Developing Large Language Models** [Certificate Developing LLMs](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/LLM.pdf)
*New York – USA*  
Program of Courses in Data Science, Deep Learning and IA  
**April 2024 – June 2024**

## **Data Camp – Python Data Analyst** [Certificate Data Analyst](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/Data_Analyst_Python.pdf) 
*New York – USA*  
Program of Courses in Data Analytics  
**April 2024 – June 2024**

## **Qintess and Mesttra – Data Science Academy** [Certificate DSA](https://matheushbps.github.io/files/QADS.pdf)
*São Paulo, SP – Brazil*  
Bootcamp in Data Science  
**June 2022 – December 2022**

---

# Skills

- **Languages:** Portuguese (Native), English (Advanced)
- **Programming:** Python, R, SQL, Excel VBA
- **Data Tools:** Power BI, Tableau, Hadoop, Hive, PySpark
- **Machine Learning:** Supervised & Unsupervised Learning, NLP, PyTorch, Hugging Face
- **Technologies:** OpenAI API, Transformer Models, Embeddings, Tokenizers, LangChain

---
